This video is about my bushcraft cutting
board which can also be used as a small
table or stool all my videos are
interconnected and if you follow my
channel you might have seen spoilers
about my tar distillery and this end
grain cutting board with legs but in
this video I'll provide more details end
grain cutting boards not only look good
but they are also easy on knives a
typical end grain board is good from
small segments of wood which prevents it
from cracking when it undergoes multiple
drying cycles however my bushcraft
cutting board will be used at my
campsite and I decided to make it look
massive and crude you don't even need
the table for it in fact you can use it
as a table through is a black aspen tree
that fell near my log cabin last winter
I liked the way the wood looked so I used it to make my shaving horse some of my
cabin's furniture and this very cutting
board even though this aspen fell last
winter and was no longer attached to its
roots it still grew some leaves this
means moisture was evaporating all this
time there was no rain during the last
month and the grass is all dry now all
these is actually good because the log
should be fairly dry I cut an excellent
10-inch (25 cm) thick segment out of it
from a bushcraft cutting board
however aesthetically it looked rather
bulky to preserve its massiveness and
heavy duty nature I cut a taper into the
board using a string as a guide I
tapered the edges quite radically yet
the remaining thickness of the material
was enough to drill out holes for the
legs I use
a generator to power my side grinder for
running out the tapered portion of the
segment I decided to use crooked
branches to go along with the rugged
design each leg has to get tapered to
fit to the socket my shaving horse
wasn't ready at this point so I used a
regular chisel to carve them down it
wasn't an ideal tool and I could have
used a side grinder what I was saving on
gasoline from a generator to charge my
cameras' and drone's batteries I also
could have used my homemade draw knife
but again my shaving horse was not
complete yet the day before I started to
make my tar distillery to produce tar
and rosin from oily pine roots I needed
rosin to glue the legs onto the aspen
segment to complete my cutting board
project please let me know if you have
an idea what can be done with tar and
rosin besides using them as an adhesive
and a water repellent okay I got enough
rosin and now we can start the gluing
process which is not different from
using any other glue once turpentine
evaporates from rosin it acts like a
strong adhesive and would hold the legs
in the sighted securely I made a mistake
in the process and one of the legs did
not pass my quality control of visual
appeal with great difficulty I managed
to pull it out thanks to Archimedes and
his invention of the lever
I replaced the leg with a less crooked
pine branch all that is left is to cut
the legs to size to make the structure
steady and functional
a blacksmith's rule of thumb for evil
making is applicable here when
establishing the height of the legs they
would make anvil to the height at which
your thumb hangs when you're standing
with your arms to your side I chose this
height for my cutting board because I
plan to slice food while standing or
sitting on a tall chair I'm using my
homemade frame saw to cut and shave down
the legs I like it so much that I have
been using it for just about every
project lately I guess I'll keep using
it till it gets boring I decided to make
the cutting board three legged because
no matter which terrain I put it on it
will always be steady after all it is a
bushcraft cutting board and it's not
easy finding a perfectly flat surface in
the outdoors to prevent staining and
absorption of moisture
I applied regular food grade oil onto
the cutting board surface
I should have applied it on its
underneath surface as well because
within one week it started to crack to
prevent further cracking I applied
leftover epoxy resin from my kayak
project onto the underneath surface of
the board now my cabin has a cutting
board that can also serve as a stool or
table all I have left to do is make a
permanent oven a bed a kitchen table and
chairs once these are completed I will
be able to visit and live in the log
cabin during the winter here is the
grace of nature's lines how do you like
the cutting board's curvy legs
if you liked this video perhaps you
could share it with your friends that
good people watch good videos this is
Max Egorov, st. Petersburg, Russia and
final note I only produce one or two
videos max a month and if you don't want
to miss new content like this you can
click on the bell reminder for
notifications I hope to see you back on
Advoko MAKES